Recommendations from the PESTLE/PESTEL Analysis
This PESTEL analysis of Microsoft Corporation highlights a variety of opportunities that can boost the company’s growth and expansion in the global computer hardware, software, consumer electronics, and online services market. 
The remote or macro-environment is advantageous to the business, considering the opportunities available to Microsoft in markets worldwide. However, this PESTEL analysis shows that the main threat against the company is competition based on the expansion of foreign firms, as indicated through the external factor of increasing international trade agreements. 
Microsoft experiences rising competitive rivalry with software firms. To address this threat, a recommendation is for the company to develop innovative and novel software products that can outcompete their rivals. It is also recommended that Microsoft develop additional strategic alliances with other firms to increase its competitive strength in overseas markets.
As identified in this external analysis through the PESTEL/PESTLE analysis model, the opportunities in the industry environment should be adequate for Microsoft to continue as one of the major firms in the global information technology and online services industry.

CONCLUSION
After the careful study of the pestle analysis of Microsoft, we have concluded that the brand has a top position in the software industry across the world. But macro-environmental factors are out of the control of any business. It doesn’t matter however large the brand may be.
Therefore, the company should maintain a less gender discriminate environment inside the organization. If Microsoft doesn’t change its course of action, then anti-trust and other lawsuits would send a negative image of the company.

Recommendation fro the VIRO Analysis
Artificial intelligence is part of Microsoft Corporation’s ongoing strategic plans to grow the business and establish its presence as a leading AI provider. However, as shown in the VRIO table, AI capabilities are still a non-core competency because the company’s focus remains on computing hardware, software, and related cloud-based or online services.
Nonetheless, Microsoft has the opportunity to make AI a core competency for competing against the AI offerings of other firms. This shift is possible by further building the business organization to support AI development and to offer AI services. In addition, this VRIO analysis of Microsoft Corporation presents the growing portfolio of products for other platforms, which has the potential to become a core competency. 
Further expanding the portfolio can increase the company’s market reach and brand recall. Such strategic expansion of the product portfolio can increase Microsoft’s competitiveness based on network externalities, product compatibility, and customer convenience.

Conclusion:
Microsoft is a company which has its own strengths that has helped it to sustain a top position in the market even at the present day. They have a brand image, they have trust of their customers and a reputation that is making them to still operate in the market; however, this paper brings forth the issue that Microsoft is facing which is the issue of innovation. The company is facing a lot of challenges in terms of innovation and requires a strategy that would help them to overcome this situation and move forward with the business. Microsoft company has its weakness about innovation which brings everything in their value proposition framework at stake. As it happens the company’s mentality about “me- too” and the stereotype of developing their own products or platform running counter to their competitors is tearing away their customers more and more. They did not analyze their market properly even though they spend so much in their Research and Development, otherwise they would have noticed that their customers are not very enthusiastic about extreme changes. The competitors of Microsoft found a door open through Microsoft’s weakness and now they compete equally with the company. In order to stand firm in a top position at the market, they came up with the strategy of introducing end- user device; this strategy also proved to be futile seeing that those devices were not compatible enough to compete with their competitor’s end- user devices. The strategy that was chosen for the company is to utilize the end- user devices with increased security measures that is currently an issue for every end- user device. Microsoft has a string knowledge about cloud computing and they already possess the resources to reduce this issue of security for the end- user devices and introduce end- user devices through innovative which would be secured and safe and extend the business of the company. It would also help the company to overcome many other threats and weaknesses like unable to partner and form business relationships to have more profit in the market. Hence, the company can learn more from the strategy implementation and overcome their lack of innovation; yet they would have to keep themselves updated regarding the customer needs and preferences or else, there stays a high possibility of loss of customers since consumer buying decisions are extremely dynamic.

5. Conclusion
With the above research we can hereby see the key challenges faced by Microsoft in terms of lack of innovation and creativity. We also realize that without innovating it would be very difficult for Microsoft to generate and sustain the same amount of profit it used to earn until now with help of its cash cows Microsoft office and Windows. With the introduction of cloud computing Microsoft has to prepare itself for web based computing instead of traditional desktop computing. It also has to carefully plan the prices it charges for its applications and its operating systems which are available free through the internet. It also has to continue its innovation in terms of its new search engine Bing and make it unique thus giving enough reasons for its customer to change their search engine to Bing. Thus with proper analysis Microsoft should select an appropriate strategy which is inline with its capabilities and which would extract its full potential thus helping it retain its position among the top companies in the world.


Key Points & Actions – Microsoft SWOT Analysis
This SWOT analysis shows that Microsoft Corporation has the necessary business characteristics and competitive advantages to remain one of the leading players in the computer hardware and software industry. The strong brand image and positive externalities are among the major contributors to such a market position. Thus, based on the results of this SWOT analysis, Microsoft needs to continue enhancing its brand image while improving alliances with other firms to strengthen positive externalities. These actions can create more opportunities for higher revenues in the global information technology and digital services market.

The weaknesses and threats outlined in this SWOT analysis point to strategic reform for strengthening Microsoft. For example, the company can diversify its business to boost potential growth based on novel hardware products. Increasing Microsoft’s investments in hardware design and development can help create a stronger ecosystem of goods and services for counteracting the threats identified in this SWOT analysis.
