iNTERNAL ANALYSIS
Descripition: A resource-based analysis of the focal organisation,
			backed by critical evaluation of relevant concepts,
			theories, frameworks, tools and models and
			persuasive argumentation (supported by
			appropriate referencing).

Evaluation: Outstanding, well-supported, evidence-backed
			application and analysis, supported by critical
			evaluation of relevant concepts, theories,
			frameworks, tools and models and persuasive
			argumentation and appropriate referencing,
			and well-argued reasons for the choice of
			framework(s)/ tool(s), and discussion on the
			shortcomings of the approach.


At SCQF Level 11, mere “description”, “comprehension” or simple “understanding” are not
sufficient. Students are expected to demonstrate higher-level skills
This is reflected in the learning outcomes of this course.
Hence, please do not expend too much time, effort or word count into describing the
frameworks and tools. Your understanding should shine through your application and critical
analysis.
Specifically, you'd start with justifying why a certain framework, model or tool is appropriate to
use in your particular organisation and situation, then you'd spend most of your time and effort
into the application, a

Grade A* 80% and above Outstanding performance, exceptionally able – pass
• Articulates an outstanding critical understanding and interpretation of the relevant
information, principal theories, concepts and principles presented by the assessment.
• Articulates an outstanding critical understanding that integrates most, if not all, of the main
areas of the specialist discipline.
• Demonstrates outstanding, extensive, detailed and critical knowledge, informed by current
discipline developments.
• Displays an outstanding ability to critically appraise scholarship and evidence, and synthesise
concepts, knowledge and theory.
• Applies a range of specialist and/or professional skills, techniques or practices aligned with
the discipline.
• Demonstrates an outstanding ability to communicate knowledge (written, verbal, practical,
visual).
• Demonstrates an outstanding critical awareness of the scope and application of disciplinary
and interdisciplinary scholarship.
• Shows an outstanding reflexive awareness of value judgements and assumptions embodied in
the subject.
• Demonstrates outstanding originality, creativity or innovation in the application of
knowledge and / or practice.
• Displays outstanding potential to undertake research or be a leading practitioner within a
specialist area.